## Abstract  
The original theory of heterochrony [1,2] provides us with a generalized quantitative perspective on the dynamics of developmental trajectories. While useful, these developmental trajectories merely characterize changes in the speed and extent of growth in developmental time. More recent work on sequence heterochrony [3] reconsiders heterochrony as a series of developmental events such as tissue development or morphogenetic transformations positioned according to their relative occurrence. One open problem in the literature involves how to characterize developmental trajectories, particularly for rare modes of development such as proposed by [4]. By applying better representations of development along with the appropriate mathematical constructs, we hope to reveal interesting features of changes in growth given the plasticity and complexity of developmental timing.  

We will present a range of potential dynamical approaches to characterizing heterochrony [5] in a way that goes beyond existing models. Our approach is unique in that we reconsider the developmental trajectory as a series of autonomous developmental programs called triangular state machines (TSMs). With a focus on developmental timing, we will use formal techniques to characterize delays and bifurcations in the developmental trajectory. We also consider the role of multiple developmental programs operating either in parallel or serially that are able to characterize some of the immense diversity observed in animal development. Along the way, we will employ concepts such as delay dynamical equations and bifurcation theory that can enrich our understanding of heterochrony and complex developmental processes more generally.  

### Introduction  
The theory of heterochrony provides a framework for characterizing the nature of growth relative to adaptive changes in phenotype expressed in development and indicative of evolutionary history. Taking a dynamical systems view of heterochrony allows us to characterize less common modes of growth and transformation during development called _developmental incongruities_. Two examples of developmental incongruities are metamorphosis and the presence of nervous system with both  ancestral and derived components.

### Acquisition of Developmental Sequences  
In Williamson [4], several examples are given (Echinoderms, Decapods, Trochophorates, and Bryozoans) with respect to incongruous larvae, or larvae stages that resemble those of distantly-related taxa. Two phylogenetic mechanisms [4, 6] have been proposed for developmental incongruity: hybridization and horizontal gene transfer. In the case of these mechanisms, there are two problems with purely empirical investigations. The first involves distinguishing between different larval stages originating in various species, particularly in terms of genetic control. Secondarily, there is a question of acquisition. While several candidate mechanisms are proposed, there is no theoretical model that explains such developmental incongruities.  

Related to these problems is whether multiple developmental stages accumulate through singular events that contributing to genetic variation within a species, or are acquired through mass acquisition. In the case of hybrids, combinations of genetic material from two independent species occur either in convergence zones [7, 8] or as multiple independent interbreeding events resulting in reticulate evolution [9, 10]. Furthermore, hybridization events can lead to both large-scale genomic rearrangements and changes in gene expression [11, 12]. Horizontal gene transfer provides a more explicit mechanism [13-15], but specific instances of such are no easier to empirically identify.  

### Expression of Developmental Sequences  
Heterochrony can be defined as changes in the rate of change in development for a specific trait, the resulting acceleration or deceleration being a result of tweaks made to the expression of genes in any given genetic regulatory network (GRN). In many cases including the hybridization cases Williamson describes, heterochrony is quite fluid relative to a linear developmental sequence and life-history. This is even true to the extent that adult sequences from distant taxa can be present in a given species' life-history [4, 6] observes two types of overlapping body symmetry in modern Holothurian life-history. This overlap is due to heterochronic changes in the expression of each type of symmetry relative to their ancestral expression: radial symmetry is accelerated and expressed in late larvae, while the disappearance of bilateral symmetry is decelerated so that it persists throughout adulthood. Williamson [6] also observes what he calls "start again" developmental sequences. An example of this is found in Trochophores, which express a Bryozoan-typical juvenile period in its life-history.
