## Towards an Understanding and Theory of Physical Intelligence

While it is well-known that biological processes produce information, it is unclear how such processes produce as they interact with the surrounding physical environment. Biological processes that operate in a mechanical manner are particularly interesting in that they produce an adaptive response not directly associated with a nervous system. In lieu of ascribing a general intelligence mechanism to these phenomena, I propose a more specific set of mechanisms collectively defined as physical intelligence (PI). This theory of intelligence is of great topical value, and is applicable to domains such as biological development and neuromechanics. This theory is flexible enough to operate both as a metaphor and in a more explicit form. PI is also a foundational theory that merges the phenomenology and principles of motion with that of connectivity. It is these two mechanisms which work together to create a form of intelligence from physical inputs. While intelligence is typically defined in terms of vision, learning, or language, PI provides an unconventional view of adaptive intelligent behavior. 

The core prediction of PI is that physicality experienced by a biological network exists in a stable equilibrium state. When informational content is altered, this system will adjust in an adaptive manner. This should produce a number of behaviors that resemble intelligence. We also predict that PI is synthesized through networks of units that interact and, importantly, add environmental and state space context to the associated biological function. Viewed in this manner, PI is an emergent property of complex systems with three main mechanisms: adjacency, connectivity, and constraint. The first two of these are defined a bit differently than is usually found in the complex networks literature. In PI, adjacency refers to a specific path of connectivity, particularly the path length through a connective structure. Adjacency may provide information about causality, but also explicit information about feedback mechanisms and the "adjacent possible". Connectivity refers to interactions between individual units, whether they be cells, sensory inputs, or behavioral/anatomical structures. Connectivity can also be measured through systemic capacitance enabled by connectivity and discouraged by constraint. Therefore, constraint refers to manner in which network structure dampens connectivity and lead to signal loss. These include dead-end paths in a connective structure or regions of regions of sparse connectivity caused by geometric barriers.

This project will focus on empirical investigation and theoretical synthesis in two model systems: human neuromechanics and artificial developmental systems. In the first case, I would deploy Virtual Reality (VR) and Tangible User Interface (TUI) platforms to test how physical intelligence might result from the plasticity of human nervous systems. I also plan to examine the underpinnings of PI in passive dynamic walker and artificial developmental systems.  In both cases, experiments which modify the physical context of an environment in a "unnatural" manner and introduce "nonsensical" physical relationships can be conducted. These perturbations produce far-from-equilibrium states requiring an adaptive response and producing a wide range of potential signatures including stochastic resonance and spatial pattern-formation at multiple scales.  
