## Developmental (Research) Plasticity: informatics, distributed collaboration, and open science

Over the past decade, there has been an explosion of quantitative, high-throughput data generated by a host of new measurement technologies. Public access to these data provides information on a host of phenomena from behavioral to genomic, which allows for biological processes at multiple scales to be more fully characterized. Concurrently, new forms of collaboration and education have emerged which allow these data to be utilized by a broader community of scientists from many different fields and career stages. This can not only lead to new opportunities for scientific discovery, but also result in new forms of scientific practice: open-source computational biology, novel analytical methods and quantitative models, theory hackathons, the creation of open data repositories, and a wide range of published output. It is this combination of hybrid research/education and collaborative flexibility which defines this new type of "open" model for scientific discovery.

To demonstrate this, I will draw from work being conducted at the Orthogonal Research and Education Laboratory (https://orthogonal-research.weebly.com/), in particular two working groups: the DevoWorm (http://devoworm.weebly.com) and Representational Brains and Phenotypes (https://representational-brains-phenotypes.weebly.com/). These examples will demonstrate how this new kind of developmental neuroscience can proceed. By integrating multiple sources of data into a framework of computational modeling and analysis, we can demonstrate global processes in the developing nervous system as well as undiscovered phenomena related to developmental/newly-differentiated, emerging neural systems, and the nature of spatiotemporal complexity at multiple scales.

Understanding the nervous system and developmental processes by using approaches such as networks/connectomics, the analysis of system dynamics, and comparisons among a diversity of model organisms contributes to a richer view of developmental. Bringing together diverse sources of biological data also leads us to new insights into biological emergence and the complexity of cellular systems. The utilization of new models such as developmental Braitenberg Vehicles provide a means to simulate phenomena for which we have little to no data. We will conclude with considering how this work provides innovations in model-building, visualization, and perhaps even new biological laws. By attending this talk, people will learn two things: how to approach the research enterprise in new ways, and research into a host of topics that incorporate data reuse, theoretical development, and computational techniques.

This talk will address the latest developments in the field by applying the presented framework to a host of potential questions outside the current scope of the working groups. Additionally, there will be a strong cross-disciplinary contribution to this talk, and will be useful to attendees in terms of appreciating how to talk and work across traditional disciplinary boundaries. I will also explore the potential for new opportunities and discuss how this framework scales to larger collaborations and educational platforms.

