## Building Epistemological Directories (EDs) for Interdisciplinary Research
Github repo [website](https://github.com/Orthogonal-Research-Lab/Models-for-Data-Reuse)  

Building upon work being conducted by the Orthogonal Research and Education Laboratory’s Data Reuse Initiative on Epistemological Directries (EDs), we seek to build a set of directories, annotated bibliographies, and graphical representations that define the scope of field-specific knowledge. The Epistemological Directory (ED) is an innovation of our lab recently presented at csv,conf, and provides a means to educate contributors on scholarly topics where they have deficiencies in expertise. With Season of Docs support, we will be able to develop EDs into a truly comprehensive referential system for new contributors to get up to speed on unfamiliar topics.  

Our plan is to systematize and expand the current framework of EDs. Our revised version of the ED concept will unify a number of topics associated with the Orthogonal Lab’s research portfolio. These topics include: Artificial Intelligence, Neuroscience, Cognitive Science, Simulation, Philosophy of Science, and Open Science. The basic structure of an ED includes documentation (tutorials, links, discussions, and bibliography) for specific topics, visualizations that define the development of a field, key equations and methodologies, archives of data sets and key findings, and linkages between distinct fields in the form of potential connections and modes of investigation. It is this last issue that is potentially the most useful to our organization.  

The priorities for this Season of Docs would be as follows: start development on a new Laboratory-wide ED, make linkages between issues and fields in a few of our existing EDs, and (if time permits) contribute to a set of community standards for implementing EDs on other topics and in other organizations.  

Mentors: Bradly Alicea [balicea@openworm.org](mailto:balicea@openworm.org) and Vinay Varma [vinay.n.varma189@gmail.com](mailto:vinay.n.varma189@gmail.com). The intern will also become a contributor to the [Data Reuse initiative]((https://data-reuse.weebly.com/)), where we will also coordinate with external groups such as the eLife Ambassadors program.  
