## Contextual Connection Machines

Building on our organization's ([Orthogonal Research and Education Laboratory](https://orthogonal-research.weebly.com/)) past two years as a Google Summer of Code participant, we seek to combine the work on two Artificial Intelligence paradigms: [Developmental Braitenberg Vehicles and Contextual Geometric Structures](https://representational-brains-phenotypes.weebly.com/google-summer-of-code.html). In the case of the former (Developmental Braitenberg Vehicles), we learned lessons on how to create computational analogues of nervous systems that emerge during a developmental period. Through a variety of implementations, these embodied nervous systems can perform behaviors such as spatial navigation, multisensory integration, and coordinated emergence. In the case of the latter (Contextual Geometric Structures), we were able to instantiate a series of mathematical models of brain function and cultural classifications into code. 

This year's project will involve integrating elements of these two projects into something called _Contextual Connection Machines_. We are interested in building programs that can expand the number of nodes and links over time, with each node having a representation that provides context to the information flow across the network. As a student, you will join our [Representational Brains and Phenotypes](https://representational-brains-phenotypes.weebly.com/) group, as well as participate in our [Saturday Morning NeuroSim](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7UcgCKjYcAA&list=PL4RJ4xCetB63f4DkdrrysVZr5LlVzmfF8) meeting. You will also contribute to building upon emerging intra-organizational topics such as _Meta-Brain Models_ and _Cybernetics_. The successful student should approach this project with both technical skill and intellectual curiosity. A background in programming languages such as C++, Python, Kotlin, or Julia are essential, and an interest in techniques such as genetic algorithms or agent-based models are preferred.  
