## Network Architectures for Growing Academic Open-Source  

Open-source models of collaboration are becoming a popular mode to conduct academic-related research projects. Particularly during the pandemic, a fully-virtual and highly flexible academic community can be a critical component of a young scholar’s development. In a typical academic department or community, the structure is that of a strict hierarchy. But open-source offers an alternative: a community can form spontaneously. This spontaneous element is seen most often with respect to large fluctuations in expertise and membership, in addition to the need to address heterogeneous sets of tasks over time. While some of these challenges exist in traditional academic settings, looking at these problems in terms of open-source networks cast a new light on these phenomena. In fact, the open-source academic collaboration examples we will be examining resembles the emergence of new fields in a citation network [1] more than a traditional academic Departmental setting. This is by intent (preference for interdisciplinary collaboration), and demonstrates the flexibility of such architectures.  

Thinking about the advantages of open-source organization in terms of complex networks allows us to pose the following question: how should community-building proceed to build a highly-flexible and sustainable community? As open-source communities often have a low barrier to entry and more contingent membership as compared to a traditional academic setting, governance plays an explicit role in cultivating the network architecture. I have identified three potential structures to aim for when managing such a community: densely connected networks, strictly hierarchical networks, or selective disconnection with intentional interconnectivity between different modules of the network. These represent a random strategy, a strategy that mimics traditional academic communities, and a mix of these two examples with innovation.  

In this talk, I will use examples from the OpenWorm Foundation [2], Orthogonal Research and Education Laboratory [3], and Rokwire Community to answer the question of how complexity is cultivated in open-source networks. I offer three main findings from my experience of leading within these open-source organizations. The participation signature in the community is that of a single mode of core contributors, but with a long tail of contingent participants. This latter group will participate as needed or desired, and by conventional metrics do not seem to contribute much. As part of the community, however, these contributors can serve as a strategic reserve, allowing for flexibility in how different projects within the community can utilize expertise. Another aspect of this long-tailed membership is how participation can be stimulated by assigning formal roles to members based on their pre-existing skills. Roles such as editor, facilitator, or members of interest groups can create cliques within the network. While these role-based cliques serve to constrain connectivity., they also sharpen how expertise is utilized. Finally, cliques can recapitulate the diversity of a densely connected network by recruiting different types of expertise into the same clique. This leads to a high degree of local connectivity, and as people with specific skills can move from project to project, this also provides a degree of global interconnection as well.  

References:  
[1] Batagelj, V., Ferligoj, A., and Squazzoni, F. (2017). The emergence of a field: a network analysis of research on peer review. _Scientometrics_, 113, 503–532.

[2] Sarma, G.P., Lee, C-W., Portegys, T., Ghayoomie, V., Jacobs, T., Alicea, B., Cantarelli, M., 
Currie, M., Gerkin, R.C., Gingell, S., Gleeson, P., Gordon, R., Hasani, R.M., Idili, G., Khayrulin, S., Lung, D., Palyanov, A., Watts, M., Larson, S.D. (2018). OpenWorm: overview and recent advances in integrative biological simulation of _Caenorhabditis elegans_. _Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B_, 373, 20170382. doi:10.1098/rstb.2017.0382. 

[3] Alicea, B. (2020). Building a Distributed Virtual Laboratory Adjacent to Academia. _MetaArXiv_, doi:10.31222/osf.io/4k3z6
