csv,conf,v5/Abstract.md, before:

### Title: Epistomological Directories for Research Development and Education

#### Authors: Bradly Alicea and Jesse Parent

Learning and research involves more than simply looking things up on Wikipedia. The presenters propose a Github-based system for advancing research and interdisciplinary education called Epistomological Directories (EDs). We will present two versions of this: one for topics in Cybernetics and Systems and the other on Frontier Maps for education in AI, Philosophy, and Systems Science. Unlike conventional topical wikis, our approach serves as a set of research nodes, each of which contain a take-off point for other nodes. Each node (defined as a Markdown file or folder) might be based on interpretations of key papers in the field, or proposing new research directions based on a given research group's activities. At some nodes, we also plan to include annotated data in the form of .csv files (data tables) and .ipynb files (Jupyter notebooks), which serve to provide information about sample data for a topical domain, or for more theoretical topics what the data should look like (pseudo-data). Frontier Maps also serve the purpose of providing minimal information needed to understand jargon and advanced topics in fields unfamiliar to the user. More generally, EDs can serve as a tool for theory-building, self-directed education, and collaboration by bringing people up to speed on niche topics. They might also be used to engage in meta-research for special topics and published papers.

Commit message:

mentioning tutorials/coding projects
They are a part of Frontier Map (a lean towards computational analysis), for coding examples, tutorials, and potentially some open projects.

csv,conf,v5/Abstract.md, after:

### Title: Epistomological Directories for Research Development and Education

#### Authors: Bradly Alicea and Jesse Parent

Learning and research involves more than simply looking things up on Wikipedia. The presenters propose a Github-based system for advancing research and interdisciplinary education called Epistomological Directories (EDs). We will present two versions of this: one for topics in Cybernetics and Systems and the other on Frontier Maps for education in AI, Philosophy, and Systems Science. Unlike conventional topical wikis, our approach serves as a set of research nodes, each of which contain a take-off point for other nodes. Each node (defined as a Markdown file or folder) might be based on interpretations of key papers in the field, or proposing new research directions based on a given research group's activities. At some nodes, we also plan to include annotated data in the form of .csv files (data tables) and .ipynb files (Jupyter notebooks), which serve to provide information about sample data for a topical domain, or for more theoretical topics what the data should look like (pseudo-data). Frontier Maps also serve the purpose of providing minimal information needed to understand jargon and advanced topics in fields unfamiliar to the user, while offering introducory coding-examples and tutorials when applicable. More generally, EDs can serve as a tool for theory-building, self-directed education, and collaboration by bringing people up to speed on niche topics. They might also be used to engage in meta-research for special topics and published papers.
