### Isometric Representations of Axial Biology

In this talk, I will introduce a series of methods based on isometric geometry that allow us to characterize structural and functional differences in biological systems. Utilizing isometric bivariate graphs and information measures, information isometry [1] has been used to represent a second-order analysis of the developmental lineage tree. More generally, we can represent and measure the structural and state differences between a pair of tree representations using a bivariate isometric graph. An allied method based on isometric networks a similar type of second-order analysis leads to the representation of various phenotypic structures. These networks resemble topologies similar those found in the art of M.C. Escher or classic video games such as Sim City and Zaxxon [2]. In this latter case, pairwise comparisons of complex neural phenotypes occur in the form of relational data structures. To capture the information content of isometric networks, we propose using Hamming distance for static comparisons, and Kullback-Leibler divergence for dynamic comparisons. Isometric networks also provide a means to reduce four dimensions of information (three of space, one of time) and intriguing natural relationships to an easily representable 2-D data structure.

References:
[1] Alicea, B., Portegys, T.E., and Gordon, R. (2016). Information Isometry Technique Reveals Organizational Features in Developmental Cell Lineages. bioRxiv, doi:10.1101/062539.

[2] Krikke, J. (2000). Axonometry: a matter of perspective. IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications, 20(4), 7-11.
