At last year’s csv,conf, we presented on Epistemological Directories (EDs). EDs as a means to advance interdisciplinary research and education. This year, we will discuss three innovations for open-source research training: stream-feeds, Twirlybird note taking methods, and a deeper look into the use of version control for creating and maintaining topical stubs. In more depth, stream-feeds are based on the group’s academic consumption (e.g. discussions, writings) and interests (e.g. new papers, intriguing graphs) at any given moment in time, presented in the order they are posted in each medium. This mode of presentation has cognitive advantages for the learner: parallelism of the information-gathering process, creating mental models of possible topical themes as one moves their attention from one stream to another, and extraction of key themes using a person’s volitional and intentional processes. One consequence of these advantages is that information is made salient in the form of a few discoverable streams, which leads to the serendipitous emergence of novel topical themes. A learner can move from one stream to another, scroll through each stream serially, and then construct a train of thought that contributes to the development of broader understanding. Another advance in ED development is the use of Twirlybird notes. The Twirlybird (another name for maple tree seeds) system is used to organize group notes in a way that plant the seeds of further discovery and revisitation of bookmarked topics. This is particularly useful for revisiting the voluminous information that is encountered in a conference or workshop setting. Twirlybird note taking can be seen as an attempt to capture what would otherwise be fleeting, ephemeral points and ideas that occur to individuals during asynchronous engagement with particular relevance to virtual streamed materials. While these collectively-assembled documents can be quite large, consensus content (similar points made by multiple collaborators) can be used to revisit particular topics and themes. We conclude by considering new ways to utilize the power of version control as innovations to the ED architecture. One emerging use is for creating open papers, which are highlighted during group meetings and open to individual issue-based and open-ended contributions. Both open papers and Twirlybird systems are built on top of topical stubs, which are the core element of EDs, and as such serve as tools for theory-building, self-directed education, and collaboration. This integration allows for niche topics to be developed into more substantial intellectual contributions.
